hey guys welcome to lingua marina today
we're going to talk about a
it's a psychological topic when you
forget words happens to me
all that time i'm talking to a person
and the worst thing
i kind of have this word in my head just
right now but now when i'm talking about
this
i forgot this word like it happens to me
all the time
and i can totally understand you uh it
happens a lot at any level of english
and today we're gonna talk about ways
that you can
navigate through this situation and
hopefully you will remember some of the
methods and tips that i will give you
and you would use them later when you're
talking to native speakers or
just when you're speaking english and
you forget a word
so first of all a really basic tip super
basic
try and say this word in your language
maybe if you're from finland
maybe that would be a little tricky
because in a finnish language is one of
those weirdest languages when
even computer doesn't sound like
computer because
if i say computer this is a russian word
people in america would understand what
i mean like you can try
and make it sound more american computer
and people would understand
because there are so many words these
days that are
very very similar across many languages
so whenever you forget something like if
you
really want to say a word because there
are other ways you can navigate through
the situation
but if you really want to say what try
and say it in your own language
maybe something comes out of this if not
no problem
i see people do it all the time here so
i have a gardener who's from mexico
and he's english i would say he's
pre-intermediate
and sometimes he just forgets words he
would just say something in spanish and
i was like oh
okay because i learned italian they're
kind of similar languages and
that helps a lot for us to communicate
with each other
the second tip just ask a person who
you're talking to
to remind you was that word and
americans use it all the time
oh what was that what was that word um
oh yeah like
what do you call it sorry oh yeah that
one so americans use this phrases all
the time so just write them down and
whenever you forget a word just ask a
person who you're talking to
the next tip is to remember the stats
that i'm just about to give you
so there was this guy a scientist dr
mahrabian and he
analyzed the speech and uh he concluded
that
seven percent of what we understand is
verbal just seven percent
38 is vocal like your intonations
and uh 55 is visual
that means that you just need to use
your visual signs the problem
with phone calls here is that you can't
do that or
if you're on zoom then you can but this
is why a lot of people struggle with
making phone calls in english
but if you're talking to a real person
if you are on zoom doing a video call
then use your hands use your acting
capabilities to show
what you mean like if you're struggling
to say a dog you can say woof woof you
can say
meow meow whatever something i forgot a
couple days ago i forgot the the word
blow kisses like
when you do this this is called blow
kisses and my daughter loves to do that
and um i wanted to ask her to do blow
kisses but i forgot how to say it
and i just said do this i wouldn't
recommend this method during the exam
but
something you can totally use in normal
life the next tip
is actually to stop and paraphrase the
whole thing
because again i know where it is coming
from sometimes you either
had this word on the tip of your tongue
and it just
evaporated when you started saying a
phrase it is probably a complicated
super advance or it
happens to me all the time again and the
way to deal with it
is to just stop a phrase and say it in a
completely different way
because you are probably translating in
your head from your own language to
to english and then you forget the word
and then you're stuck
the best thing to do there is to go back
to the beginning of the phrase and just
say it in different words
and again this is i'm not relating to
words that you can forget like object
words cat dog blow kisses
you can't really paraphrase something in
order to remember that word
but something that brings more
complexity to your speech like
evaporate it like the word that i used
maybe
go back to the beginning of the sentence
and don't say
the word just evaporated from my mouth
say i forgot this word like
use easier words this helps me
a lot again this is like we're
discussing different methods
this one is really advanced like when
you just want to sound too advanced when
you want to sound like a native speaker
but you realize you're not yet there in
terms of your vocabulary it's okay to go
back to stop
paraphrase and sound like an
intermediate person but
at least the other person would
understand you and there is nothing bad
in sounding like an intermediate person
the next tip
is to just try and come up with words
yourself like
some words in english they're just a mix
of different words like
water fall obviously right this
example with blowing kisses like you're
blowing kisses
that is obvious as well so if you just
forget a word try to make it up
try to take it from french or italian
because 30
of english vocabulary was adopted from
french so you can actually use
that language as well if you know french
by the way try to use french words
and of course there are other tips that
are super useful
learning synonyms but this is not
something you would do in a situation
where you forgot a word but something
you can remember now and
do something later on when you're
studying english
remember synonyms learn words and
synonyms
intelligent smart clever
witty etc like learn them in batches
this way when you forget one of the
words you remember
the synonyms another tip use the
dictionary
that explains the word in english
because again when you forget a word
at least you can explain it in english
because you've read the explanation
you have something there in your mind
we're not using 100
of our brain capacity when we read
something it's somewhere there in our
minds and we've all watched the movies
where people like are able to memorize
everything
it's just our brain is capable of a lot
of things and
don't underestimate the power of using
such a dictionary
and reading the explanation of the word
in english because later on something
will click
and you would remember that explanation
thank you guys so much for watching this
video up to the very end as always if
you enjoy the way i teach
don't forget to subscribe don't forget
to download my workbook the link will be
down below
and i will see you very soon in my next
videos
bye-bye